Gregor didn't take any chances. When you blow the lid on game changing tech like he did, Cooperations, with a capital C, and government agencies will get interested, and not really with Gregor's best interests in mind. So, when you just figured out how to receive messages from the future, you better use that to prepare. Mind you, you can't change the future, at least not the part of the future up to when the message gets sent back, but you can build interesting kinds of contingencies.

Next to Gregor, a whole array of haphazard "time capsules" was humming along and feeding him information from one minute in the future up to multiple days in the future. Not receiving anything meant he messed up and created a situation that would have caused a paradox. But Gregor had gotten good at these things, so 63 out of 64 devices were still reporting a continuous stream of data.

Node 63, the one with the longest loop time of 6 days, picked up an intrusion at the ground entrance of the facility. Gregor activated his linkspace implant, and time crawled to a stop, subjectively. He now had mental hours for every few seconds in physical space. Analyzing the information from node 63 showed, surprisingly, a person in a blue suit and lime tie, carrying a black briefcase in one hand and waving to the camera with the other. At the low data transfer rate, it was rather low resolution and with just a frame every second, but Gregor had added an automatic voice to text converter, so he got what the person was saying.

"I am with *Disney AI and Defense*. We would like to buy the patent to your invention. We are pleased to have been able to secure significant funds that should allow you to live *extremely* comfortably indefinitely."

Node 23, at 2 days 11 hours time offset, went silent while Gregor was pondering his next steps. That node was connected to the surveillance of the exit at the south emergency staircase. So assuming that knowing whatever happens there would cause a paradox, Gregor isolated Node 24 to not emit any output unless his custom designed AI filtered the information flow to something less likely to paradox. Node 24 was set at the bottom of the south emergency staircase, but an hour earlier than Node 23. Considering that it takes 15 minutes to run down the staircase, Gregor assumed it to go quiet in an hour plus change.

Just under 40 minutes later, Node 23's AI sent out a partial message before going quiet: "Multiple full body powered armor figures emerge from emergency exit into stairwell. One holds the door open, ...". The communication is cut off mid sentence. That he got this much of a message, means any speculation and acting up on it would not have caused a paradox, were that even possible.

Node 41, at 4 day offset, informs Gregor that a flock or reporters must have gotten access to the main elevator entrance. Slightly annoyed that someone he trusted sold out the access, and to multiple parties at once, he decides to change all lock codes except for the entrance lock. Changing the entrance lock would not be possible, if he would have changed the entrance lock, he would never have gotten the message about the breach. No matter the temptation of playing with a paradox, Gregor knew he would resist, because he had already gotten the message instead of silence.

"So, to summarize", Gregor thought, "companies, reporters and the government will know how to get to me, in opposite order, but within a week." He obviously was prepared. He could just only act always a bit too late, never in time to prevent anything. So any grand action he chose, must happen at least a week from now. 