Atreyu's birth was a joyous event. It was the first birth in the last 5 decades. Every birth came with the promise of more births, as no child should ever be an only child. The small village consisted of 198 souls plus a few spirits that no one but the treehuggers had talked to in recent memory. Ah yes, before we talk about Atreyu's life before he left us, let me tell you a bit about life in this village. First of all, the village has no name, it is the only village after all. There are no roads leading anywhere but "nearby". Not that there's any boundary to the forest, it's just that there is nowhere to travel. Everyone is totally content here, having found the vocation they love doing for the rest of their life or just rotating what they do througout the decades or centuries. So, what can you do in a village like this you may ask.

Well, I already mentioned the treehuggers. They... hug trees duh! And branches, and giant leaves or flowers. And they talk to the trees, who most of the time talk back. Sometimes they need to be peeled off the trees, having gotten so immersed in their dream like state they use to converse, that they forgot to eat or drink. If it gets too bad, the trees will actually deign to communicate with a non-treehugger by dropping a branch in their way pointing towards the exhausted human or just by making enough noise to attract someone to help. So, you get the gist, treehuggers are really important, but generally don't much partake in village life beyond getting patched up and carrying messages one to or from the trees.

Another profession available in the village is the hexenmeister. Their name also hints at their profession, manipulating hexadecimal numbers to calculate whatever someone needs calculating. They also have lots of clocks and spend a lot of their free time on coming up with new ways to work with hexadecimals or design new clocks. Obviously they don't build any clocks, otherwise we'd not have any clocks. For building small precise things, you go to the tinkers.

The tinkers will take any material you give them and you won't see it again unless you ask for something to be built out of that material. Most of the stuff they produce is made of carved wood, kind of due to the the fact that we're in the middle of a gigantic forest stretching in all directions. They also use the various kinds of stone found nearby or underground to make some more durable things or heavy things like counterweights. In rare cases they will use metal, but metal is mostly processed by the underlings.

Which is a great point to introduce said group. They are called underlings because they spend most of their time underground. Most of their time spent underground they spend digging. Most of their time digging they spend digging for metals. Most of their time digging for metals they dig away stone, which they also bring up, so that the tinkers and builders have something solid to work with. Yea, as you may have guessed there are some long standing cultural differences between the treehuggers and the underlings. This is not helped by the fact that they are codependent. The underlings need the treehuggers to ask the trees to use their roots to stabilize the tunnels, and the treehuggers need rare gems and precious metals so they can have amulets made for talking to the trees. Every now and then the gems burn out, so they need new ones.

Did I mention builders? Yes I think I did. Anyway, builders are pretty strong. Not, because they are born like that, but because of the work they do. They carry all the heavy stuff and stand it on top of each other until you get some construction whose plans were made by the hexenmeister. They also tend to eat the most, having burned the most calories during their work.

Apropos eating, most of the food consists of fruit or berries, nuts, roots, veggies, eggs, milk and insects. On the rare occasion that an animal, either domesticated or wild, dies, the villagefolk make a small feast where everyone gets some meat. The gatherers take care of finding, collecting and storing all the food anyone ever needs. The treehuggers tell them where things grow or die and the hexenmeister calculate when to harvest, plant or tend to which foodstuff.

The cooks then prepare these ingredients, conjuring up different wonderful meals, beverages and snacks for everyone to enjoy. The rest of the time they also cook, but either things not meant to be consumed, like glue or other fancy chemicals, or things meant to be consumed to get high as balls. Needless to say, the cooks were very popular with all villagers.

Not that there was real animosity in the village, or discontent, or generally unhappiness. There were other professions if you fancied something else. Everything was taken care of. Which brings us back to the start of this story.

Atreyu was the first child of this birthing cycle. Not that it mattered much, as all the other children were born in quick succession, and they couldn't remember a time when they weren't all there. The reason I'm telling you specifically about Atreyu has to do with the fact that he was absolutely and unchangeably bored with everything that there was to do. It's not that he found everything boring. It's just that he got bored with it after a few weeks, no matter how much the other villagers tried to find something fun for him to do. He even tried being stoned for an uninterrupted week, which really frustrated the cooks, as they were very proud of their creations. The underlings showed him the deepest and weirdest tunnels, but he just kept carving rooms into the stone, because that seemed more fun than digging for stuff. And even that got boring fast. He didn't get very far with the hexenmeister, scratching notes on paper didn't excite him even if he was fairly good at calculating his hexadecimals. He had a great run with the treehuggers, being a natural at diving into the dreamspace that was the mind of all the interconnected trees. But, alas, the minds of trees were pretty boring. He was able to build a virtual world where he flew up into the sky on a tree whose roots were on fire, but there was nowhere to go.

When he reached 25 years of age, as computed by the hexenmeister's careful watch of the stars and the suns, he got an intervention. The gatherers had just brought two deer who had dropped off a small cliff during a fight where they got their antlers entangled. A treehugger got message of the upcoming meat to the cooks, who already began preparing everything so they could go from fresh animal to finished food at a moments notice. A large feast was prepared in Atreyu's honor, as all the still-children were now informed about the fact that what they experienced is not all the world is. 768 years ago (and 4 month and 17 days as an irritated hexenmeister injected into the explanation), there was another like Atreyu. They also had no profession, but instead became a wanderer or explorer. A treehugger started nodding excitedly and took over the monologue. In fact, they had been conversing with the trees for years now, and the trees had talked to their far away brethren, and now had a mission for Atreyu, should he want it.

Iris was born the last of a triplet. None of them looked alike, even as a baby. Her brother had a full head of black hair, her other sibling was much heavier while being even smaller. Her first memories were of being in a creche with many other children. They were playing games and running around in the large garden chamber. Once they got older, they moved on to the school, only getting short periods of recess in the garden chamber when they were between lessons. But school had advantages, too, as they got to take full day expeditions to the zero G chamber in the middle of the rotating station. Not that Iris actually enjoyed any of that, except for the garden. She loved being around all the plants and watching the insects crawl around them. She built sandcastles, and dug a hole into the sandbox all the way to the steely bottom. She wasn't slacking of at school, but learning about plumbing, electronics, hydroponics or welding just didn't excite her the same way as getting dirty and sandy. So, when graduation day came, and the station AI decided, with your input of course, which profession you would join, everyone got their profession announced, except for Iris. Instead, the AI told her, that it didn't think station life was for her. Dumbfounded, Iris asked what else there was to do. It's not like there was anywhere else she or anyone she knew had ever been.  The station AI thus started telling her about the green "star" that could be seen from the observatorium. It was a planet, full of flora and fauna plus some human life. The AI also told her about people like her that came before. These other dirt lovers had left the station and travelled to a much smaller station in geosynchronous orbit of the planet. She would travel there, too, and have all the freedom to choose her future, after being informed about everything so she could make and educated decision.

Anuk was born in a clear and cold night, inside a large and well-heated igloo. They were not the only child born this night — the tribe grew by two more. Outside, the Aurora was dancing colorfully with joy for the new lives that were to come of the babies.

When Anuk got older, his friends became a huntress and a shaman, but Anuk themselves just liked floating in a kayak as far out as it was possible to return by daylight. Later they even left for a week, often lying awake under a starry sky bumbling on the waves of the open ocean.
