A heavily advanced civilization wanted to know more about their own future so they could prepare themselves.
They had had many setbacks, sometimes of the explosive type, sometimes of the cultural type and one time they even had rampant AIs crashing their information network.

So, out of safety reasons, they tried to simulate their future. Mostly their short term future, as in, run a physical experiment in a simulation first, and if it seems
safe enough, run the real thing. But, they also designed massive simulations, like simulating long term effects of cultural changes. This saved them from sending interstellar ships with tiny crews, as the crew members would just lose it after a few decades of seeing the same people over and over.

But, such simulations are really expensive if you add enough things to simulate. So, as every good economist would, you start looking for ways to reduce resource consumption.
One easy thing is to hide unnecessary details. Some of your simulated persons are looking at particles too closely? Do the full simulation. They stop looking closely? Just compute an abstraction that is indistinguishable on the large scale. They may notice the inconsistency, but they will just assume they don't know enough yet to figure things out.

They had after all had the same problem for millennia, but their physics were solved now. So they could safely say they didn't live in a simulation, or they lived in one that was
good enough for it not to matter. Some mad philosophers postured that they may be living in a story, but no one took them serious and told the philosophers to get a real job.

They expanded throughout their galaxy, and had already sent some long distance seed probes to nearby galaxies at near C. Nothing would catch them, no matter how much stronger they could accelerate in the future. When you are going a breath under light speed, a head start of a few years requires billions of years of travel to get caught up with. Luckily most of their probes only had millions of light years to travel.

The probe with the shortest trip, reached its destination after travelling around 2.5 million light years. Being a good Von Neumann probe, it munched up all the metals, some of the gas and lots of minerals in the first solar system it reached. Of course it first checked for life, but the system was as dead as some chunks of rock and ice could be. After sending out its children to be prosperous themselves and spread from system to system, it started building a simulation machine. The star was wrapped in a cloud of solar satellites that powered a computation node slapped onto each satellite's back. Together, all the computation nodes made up one huge spread out computer that could simulate a much larger space than it occupied.

Assuming it could skip some steps in the realism of the simulation. It started with a broad simulation of the galaxy it was in, by feeding all the sensor data it was receiving into the simulation. Statistics said, it should encounter between one and three other civilizations, with a probability of 62%. Not too bad, its galaxy of origin had a much smaller probability. It was a wonder its own civilization existed there. After the probe's children had grand-grand-grand-grand-grand-children of their own, each building its own simulation center before moving on,
one of the probes heard the faintest whiff of an unknown, but unmistakably artificial, signal. Some differential analysis allowed triangulation of the source within mere months.

The probe, induced with the curiosity of its creators, but also the wariness, was conflicted. It had a million protocols for contacting other species, but now that it actually was in the situation, its confidence wavered. It decided it needed more information. So it disassembled the simulation swarm, grew itself much larger than probes usually were sized, and sped towards the signal. It was getting more and more data as it got closer and the signal got stronger. The civilization it was receiving from was shouting much information about itself into space.

At some point, the probe realized that the civilization it was receiving from had started to spread out, too. Of course, travelling for hundreds of light years meant that the civilization also had hundreds of years to advance. So, the probe decided to stop at the next star, rebuild its simulation swarm, and analyze what information it had. First contact, at least as far as it knew, was imminent, if you were thinking in galactic time frames. It had to know what it was getting into before actually doing so.

So, it built a simulation of the local galaxy. It packed all the information it had on these "watu" into the simulation, and made it run at a time lapse of a century per day. The first simulation crashed after a few hours, when the simulated watu realized they were in a simulation and deliberately infected the simulation nodes. The probe archived the state at the infection time, simulated beings were fully sentient after all, especially if they knew they were simulated. After the backup, it cleansed the simulation nodes and began again, this time correcting for its past mistakes. The new simulation actually got to first contact, but rerunning the simulation with even the slightest change in parameters, yielded much different results. One simulation was absolutely benign, while just changing the timing of first contact could turn the watu mad and caused them to start attacking everything. The probe started running through every first contact protocol it had, playing with timings, framing, and self-representation. In the end, it decided it didn't know more than before. So it had a look at the null-simulation: just don't do first contact. Put the watu into an entirely empty galaxy and see what they do.

The watu did not expand as fast as the probes progenitors had. For every light year of space they gained, they spent another year just doing nothing of consequence. Half the individual watu just stayed put in some place for centuries or even millennia. The other half never stayed put, but didn't really follow a path of expansion, instead mostly looping around the colonized space. Interestingly, the watu seemed to be made up of many species. Many biological ones, but also several digital ones, with some blending in between or morphing from one to the other. It seemed that the watu were so lonely, they made themselves not lonely. But even odder was the extreme measures that the entirety of watu went through to preserve even the most miniscule of their own. Without realizing it, they were abusing the shortcuts of the simulation to their own advantage.

The synchronization logic between computation nodes sometimes required backtracking in the simulation if there was a lot of interaction between their respective area of space that they simulated. This backtracking was theoretically observable from within the simulation, but it was impossible to actually throw off the entire simulation. The probe had learned from its earlier mistakes. No one would escape this simulation or notice that they were within a simulation. Still, with each synchronization backtrack, the simulated creatures were able to send messages backwards in time from their own perspective.

After tens of millennia of simulated time, the simulation's speed exponentially slowed down and ground to a halt. All computation nodes were now stuck in backtracking and re-synchronization and not actually performing any more simulation steps. The probe was confused. It was not actually built to know confusion, but these simulations were really starting to gnaw at its core programming. It shut down the already frozen simulation, stored the state and did the equivalent to throwing up its hands in frustration.

The watu seemed good enough if left to themselves. So, the probe decided that they could have this galaxy. It sent a message back to its brethren to cease all expansion, disassemble the swarms, melt them to slag and distribute them in the system. Then the probes were to gather back at their entrance point to the galaxy and await contact.

The almost-first-contact probe itself carried its simulations with it and prepared to initiate its drives to fly to the entrance point. It was still thinking about the watu up to the moment before starting the drives. "Oh **** it" it thought and aborted the launch. It now had something it never had in any of the simulations. Confidence... and lots of simulations full of virtual watu that it could use use to bargain for its life. It flew to the nearest rocky celestial body, somewhat crash landed on the largest land mass and physically scratched a message into its body so that it was visible from space:

We come in peace, please don't blow us to smithereens.